>> Mike North: Let's build one,
and we're gonna build one to kind
of wrap around the chat
>> Mike North: The chat
header messages and footers.
So it's just gonna be this white area
on the right side of our screen.
We're gonna wrap a container around
that to facilitate the components
it contains being very simple and
not having a lot going on.
Let's get started.
Generating a new component.
>> Mike North: Just requires
that we run ember g
component chat-container.
All right, so
we have as before our new component,
our component's template and
integration test for that component.
So let's go to this JavaScript
module here for the chat container.
>> Mike North: I'm gonna show you
a technique that you can use if maybe
some of your API calls
are a little bit slow.
And you don't want your initial page
load to necessarily wait on them.
So we're gonna make it so that when this
chat container is initially rendered,
it'll be as if there are no messages.
And as soon as this component's
dropped into the DOM,
we'll kick off a A-SynC fetch.
And when that comes back we'll fill our
empty array with some chat messages.
This is a great way of making sure
that your page load time is fast.
Cuz at the very least in our case,
if we just think the left side of our UI,
if we could land that on the screen really
really quickly, it might buy us a little
bit more patience from our user where
they'll wait for the messages to come in.
So we're going to need, cuz we're to
render the messages on the screen,
this sounds like a tracked property.
It's an array we're
going to fill it later.
We're going to need to watch
this thing it's rendered, right?
So we'll import tracking, or tracked
from tracking, and we'll say tracked,
here's our messages array and
it begins empty.
And it's only yelling at us cuz type
script is freaking out a little bit.
I'm gonna just restart my type
script server and we're good to go.
So the next thing we want
to do is make a function,
which when invoked, will result in
the messages array being filled.
And it’s gonna get invoked from
the template to spoil some
of the surprise here.
So we’ll need action, right?
And we’re gonna make this an async
function called load messages,
and we can grab some args
that we are gonna get past.
So if we're given, just trying to think of
what data we need to fetch messages, so
it's gonna be like team/team ID,
we need the channel ID.
If I look at our data.
>> Mike North: And look at a channel.
Let's see if that'll do.
We've got a team ID and we've got
a channel ID, so it seems that as long as
we're given a channel,
that's complete information in order for
us to build the URL properly and
fire this request off.
So I expect we're gonna get an ARG channel
and we can put that in place right now.
When you go to channel hbs.
And I wanna,
>> Mike North: Wanna grab this.
This is gonna be become part of
our component this main element.
>> Mike North: And we're going to
up here say channel container.
Chat container,
whatever you want to call it,
and let's go down here.
So it looks like that.
We're going to pass it our channel
which is this dot model, right?
We're already using the title
of the channel description.
This kind of fits, right?
>> Mike North: Looks good,
and I have that main thing.
It's still on my clipboard.
Otherwise, you could look at
your git dif and recover that.
So let's go to our chat container hbs.
And I'm just gonna put this,
oops wrong file, chat-container hbs.
I'm just gonna put this here for
now to that main tag,
we'll deal with that in a moment.
But I'll just wanna save it for later,
it's gonna be part of this component.
So given that now we're
receiving that channel,
we know how to access an arch from
our template, we just use at channel.
This is the first time that we
need to access it from within
a piece of JavaScript code and
it's pretty simple.
It's just this.args.channel or
you could de-structure it,
>> Mike North: Like this.
>> Mike North: If you need multiple arcs
this might be a more convenient form to
use where all at once you can kind
of plug off exactly what you need.
And in fact, we just need the channel ID
which is the property ID on the channel
and we also need channel dot team ID so
we can destructure even further.
We need ID and team ID.
>> Mike North: And they're unused,
obviously, we'll fix that in a moment.
So time to kick off our request.
>> Mike North: There's our response.
We're gonna import fetch from fetch,
>> Mike North: And
we're gonna await fetch aPI teams.
I want to just check our docs here.
Pretty sure I remember it,
but I don't want to be sure.
All right, get a team channel messages.
That's the one we want.
So it's API teams.
Just copy all this.
Sounds good to me.
>> Mike North: So we'll put that
in here and we'll replace this
with the teamId, and
this with the channelId.
>> Mike North: Actually, it's just ID.
That's how we destructured it over here.
So there is our response coming back.
I have a problem in my template so
I should go and fix that right away.
Chat-container, it self closed for me.
Thank you, helpful Edgar.
I did not need that.
Okay, so we're in a good state now.
Ultimately we want the JSON that
this response comes back to us with,
we want that to be part of,
that should be the new messages, right?
There's something thats a little
strange that I'm going to do now.
I look at it as a very
small price to pay for
being able to write vanilla JavaScript,
but it's not necessarily
exactly what you might think
you would do is this last step.
So we're gonna say this messages
equal this messages and
then await
>> Mike North: Actually
we don’t even need that.
This is a complete solution,
I’ll walk through in a second.
Response, JSON, so
we need parentheses and another spread.
So what does this mean,
why on Earth have I done this?
Let me put this down a couple lines so
we can read it and talk about it easily.
So come on Perrier.
>> Mike North: All right, so
what we're saying here is number one,
we are assigning a new
array to this messages.
We're not pushing objects
into the existing array.
This is necessary or
your tracked property will not keep up.
So the arrays contents
are not being monitored.
You need to replace your old
array with the new array.
So I am taking any messages that might
already exist in there, right, say we're
calling load messages like every minute or
something, to pull new data down.
I don't wanna necessarily
lose the existing messages.
And this will give us new data here.
Now, If we were actually doing this and
doing incremental loads
we'd have to worry about the message
may already be in memory, and
it may also be coming across from the API
let's not worry about that for now.
But this is kind of what
a robust solution might
look like before the duping of some kind.
We could get away for now with this.
>> Mike North: But you would have
a totally different solution.
If you wanted to periodically load more.
We can leave it like this but but
the point I wanna make is do
not do something like that.
Don't push,
you need to make an assignment.
And in fact, sometimes there
are situations where you wanna
indicate that we have
made a property change.
You may have to do something.
In fact,
I think we should experiment here.
You could do something like this.
Push or wait
>> Mike North: But
then you would absolutely
have to do a weird thing.
Right, this ensures that the tracking
system sees a new assignment
of some sort and can evaluate
whether something needs to change.
Now I would sooner have
the solution that I just had here
than what you see right now.
This looks a little bonkers.
And it may confuse your fellow
developers but in a very performance
constrained situation you might want
to avoid the extra array allocation.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Also there's
a notified property change API for
the old way of doing that, right?
>> Mike North: Correct, and this is the
equivalent of notified property change.
>> Speaker 2: So
you can't use the old one anymore?
>> Mike North: It is
a totally different system.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Mike North: There are no
named properties any more.
>> Speaker 2: That's what
they talk about with chains?
>> Mike North: Property chains are part
of the old ember, like ember object and
the stopped get, they start set and
this is a very new thing.
So I'm gonna just back this out, so
we're replacing the old
array with the new array.
But just know that a common
snag that people hit is they,
when dealing with tracked, mutable values,
they forget that you need to have some
sort of assignment in order to tell
Glimmer, the view layer under Ember.
Which is the thing that's determining
whether HTML needs to be updated.
You need to,
an assignment is what it is listening for,
not the mutation of the array.
Or adding new things to the array.
>> Speaker 3: So ember object computer had
the concept of that dot bracket watcher.
Is there no concept like that in Octane?
>> Mike North: We’re trying to
encourage immutable data treatment and
that would involve creating
a new array and using that.
Now when you deal with collections
in the 10,000s, then it becomes
potentially worth trying other
approaches but that is an exception.
And you would want to, before going there,
you'd wanna prove that this is going to
be a measurable performance improvement,
and it's not something you just wanna
do because one day it might matter.